**When?** 
15th June 2023, 15:00 - 16:00 Europe/London ([see in your time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/London/2023-06-23/15:00))

**What?** 
*[SATRE (Standardised Architecture for Trusted Research Environments)](https://medium.com/satre) is a DARE UK Driver Project working to standardise access to secure data in trusted research environments. It includes University of Dundee, Alan Turing Institute, UCL, Ulster University, Research Data Scotland.*. 
[Collaboration Cafes](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coworking/coworking-collabcafe.html) are **online collaboration and coworking calls** for anyone interested in learning about, discussing and contributing to the project.

**Who?** 
***Anyone** interested in our project & the TRE space is welcome to join this call. No prior sign-ups needed!*

***All questions, comments, and recommendations are welcome!***

---

* 10+ attendees

## How to contribute to the project :pencil: 

Please read a walkthrough of the project and how to contribute: [Walkthrough Doc on GitHub](https://github.com/sa-tre/satre-specification/blob/main/docs/Walkthrough.md) or [Google Doc Version](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zAWxubPWxukDN8WKIXe89uhJitSaicp5/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=105089893876648516018&rtpof=true&sd=true)


## Today's theme: Public Involvement Strategy (PIE)

Today we will be discussing how TREs engage with members of the public in their work, what has worked well in the past and how PPIE has influenced their approach to TRE provision. We will also be talking about what previous public engagement work has identified as important for TREs to build and maintain trust. 

## Breakout rooms: Topic proposals and notes

*While no sign-ups are required to attend Collaboration Cafe, if you have an idea for a topic you'd like to discuss in a breakout room, please add it below and put your name next to it. A good place to start to find discussion topics are on the [SATRE Specification GitHub Repository Issue Board](https://github.com/sa-tre/satre-specification/issues).*

* Main room: General help with getting involved with SATRE and Collab Cafe (HS on Tuesdays, AL on Thursdays)
* Breakouts:
    * **Today's Theme:** PPIE strategy
         1.	Knowledge sharing on what participants already know from PPIE engagement about public requirements for a specification, and also what knowledge gaps there are that we should actively fill through future PPIE work
        2.	A discussion around whether the specification should include a specific section on PIE capabilities, PIE principles, or not include these things at all
 

You publicly share the projects being carried out by researchers  

This may be via the TRE website or annual reports 

Recommended 

You include members of the public in your approvals process  

This may be carried out via a separate public panel or members of the public on an approvals panel 

Recommended 

All public engagement activities are representative and inclusive 

Any public engagement activity carried out by TREs should use best practice to make sure they are involving a representative sample where possible and that activities are accessible and open. This could include following guidelines such as PEDRI (INSERT LINK). 

Recommended  

Example Standards 
 
Example Principle  

Principle 

Rationale 

Implications  

Public trust first, last and always. The strongest design voice should always come from the ‘public persona’ through public involvement and engagement activities 

To ensure transparency and have a two way dialogue with members of the public on the plans to inform how we design TREs and use them safely to  

Support and investment is needed to ensure organisations running TREs have public consultation procedures in place 

Everything related to the design and running of a TRE, including the research projects being carried out that can be made public should be made public.  

There should be capabilities within the TRE to support ongoing public engagement.

### Notes
#### Breakout room 1

#### Breakout room 2

1.	Knowledge sharing on what participants already know from PPIE engagement about public requirements for a specification, and also what knowledge gaps there are that we should actively fill through future PPIE work
2.	A discussion around whether the specification should include a specific section on PIE capabilities, PIE principles, or not include these things at all

##### Notes
- Not done any yet, but aware that they need to do some.
    - Would be great to have some kind of national programme for getting people invovled would be really beneficial
- TREs came up a lot. From PIE professionals, they found it difficult to describe TREs. How can they explain what a TRE is, how data is shared across organisations. From a PIE professional point of view, there is a gap here. 
    - PEDRI wants to do some work on how they can explain and describe TREs to the public
    - Side piece on TREs is desire to have shared language. Having some form of shared language for PIE and TREs.
- Completed a series of workshops with the public around handling sensitive data. Yet to distil it, but once they have a view they can share it. 
    - Most participants aren't even aware of what a TRE is at this point. Understand the need for protecting personal information, having processes in place as data producer/consumers, understanding restrictions of access, tools (e.g. import their own data, export data products into their own space).

2.	A discussion around whether the specification should include a specific section on PIE capabilities, PIE principles, or not include these things at all
- I would say yes. We need to have buy-in and trust from the public, and that should be in the principles
- As far as public trust is concerned it is mission critical. Wouldn't want to see it mandated as 'you have to host X activities'. Mandating a level of transparency is important. Having something like a public approvals process would need bringing people in, setting up a team etc.
    - Would see limited value to them from having it in the specification - getting PIE engagement on a project by project basis
        - What would be great is a national initiative on what TREs are, and follow up on that
        - Putting it on the teams running TREs feels very hard work, for less value than a big national approach
- Is there room for a accreditation that incorporates this stuff
- Transparency would be good, e.g. what systems are being used, what data is being provided. Something like this being communicated in a clear and consistent way. Transaprent in consistent ways.
    - Would a bronze, silver, gold system or something similar to this be good?
- Every so often (e.g. 1 year, 2 years, 3 years etc.) the architecture is going to need to be reviewed. With DSPT, they would say "here's where we are now, here's what's coming next year". Giving people a roadmap to excellence might deal with some of these issues of where to place it.
    - There's another thing of DSPT tailored towards different organisations. There are probably different flavours of TREs, maybe there's more than one standard architecture 


#### Breakout room 3

##### Notes

1.	Knowledge sharing on what participants already know from PPIE engagement about public requirements for a specification, and also what knowledge gaps there are that we should actively fill through future PPIE work

- What have your learned from your organisations about what is important to the public? What are the gaps?
- Several PPIE estbalished in Manchester, strongest message would be aroudn commercial aspects and the nervousness of the public around the use of their data. Reinforce that even though NHS may charge for services it is profit for purpose
  - Does that cut through groups?
  - Some broad groups, some quite focused. One person in particular very cautious about data being exploited for commercial purposes. 
  - Is that person seeking reassurance or wanting to reject this kind of use?
  - Feels like seeking reassurance.
  - This topic quite often comes up in PIE work. This person doesn't feel like this is a reason to reject (now). Does this feed back into the organisations decisions?
  - Yes, try to mitigate as many problems as possible. We can demonstrate that we have listened and taken actions. But this area is 'flammable'.
- Research focused people resist moving their work to TREs, afraid of restrictions, loss of control, changes from their previous ways of working. Sometimes need to be 'forceful' to move people to TREs. Effort to explain why there is the need and support researchers.
  - Feels public is split on appetite for change.
- Do you try to give the message to the public about the benefits/need for TREs
  - At the scoping stage produce information to explain what data is needed, what it will be used for, what the aims of research are, how likely a good outcome is.
  - We create a lot of [documentation](https://docs.er.kcl.ac.uk/CREATE/tre/) (text, videos) to explain what using the TRE will be like. Reassure researchers that needs can be met. Explain the benefit to researchers (safety, liability)
- Any conversation around TREs with the public needs a lto of clarty and explaining materials to avoid confussiona nd end up discussing about totally different things you intended to address. If PPIE is included in a specification it needs to contian/focus on that explaantions

2.	A discussion around whether the specification should include a specific section on PIE capabilities, PIE principles, or not include these things at all
- The specification has a lot of technical elements. It also has principles and governance. Should it also cover PIE. We have put together draft PIE points for the specification. What do you think about these, do they belong in the specification?
- Publicly share the projects being carried out by researchers
- Include member of the public in your approvals process
- All public engagement activities are representative and inclusive
- Interested to hear from Michal about sharing projects. KCL TRE serves KCL, but who owns the data?
  - Usually NHS, sometimes medical devices. Happy to share list of running projects with the public (though anonymise the researchers: risk of social engineering)
  - Interesting tension between wanting to share what we can, but not anything that risks the projects/data
  - Potential for some projects to be classified
  - Projects (presumably) have gone through an approval process, could link to this here.
- A suggestion: There has been a drive to standardise the vocabulary for NHS data / Standard blurb to include to tell the pulic how their data is used for good Data Acknowledgement Statement (Secondary data, this research is _only_ possible because of...)
    - [if you use public data acknowledge it](https://understandingpatientdata.org.uk/data-citation#:~:text=It%20is%20important%20to%20keep%20giving%20the%20message,this%20phrase%2C%20which%20has%20been%20tested%20with%20patients.)
- We do the bottom two. Don't have a public facing site to publicise work. Working towards this currently. Expect all of these points would be met. Happy about the points being recommended to support TREs which may have difficulty (lack of public site for example)
  - HDR UK also recommends/requires public list of projects
- Would these help
  - Yes, encourgages sites to follow good practice.
  - Yes, agreed

### Wrap up & feedback notes
- Reasons to have it in the specification
    - Aligns well with other PIE requirements
    - Nice to have a stick to make us do it when we're not
- Things to include
    - Transparency of how you're working with data, and what data
    - Transparency of where data has come from (data acknowledgement)
    - Transparent list of what projects are, data they're using, what outputs would be
    - ...

### Link List ✨ 
* X
* X
* X
* X

## Agenda

| Time | Activity |
| ---- | -------- |
| 5 mins | Introductions and breakout room suggestions |
| 5 mins | Public Involvement Engagement Introduction |
| 20 mins | (1st breakout session) |
| 5 mins | (☕️ Break) |
| 20 mins | (2nd breakout session) |
| 5 mins | :wave: Reflections and close |