**When?** 
04 April 2023, 15:00 - 16:00 Europe/London ([see in your time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/London/2023-04-04/15:00))


**What?** 
*[SATRE (Standardised Architecture for Trusted Research Environments)](https://medium.com/satre) is a DARE UK Driver Project working to standardise access to secure data in trusted research environments. It includes University of Dundee, Alan Turing Institute, UCL, Ulster University, Research Data Scotland.*. 
[Collaboration Cafes](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coworking/coworking-collabcafe.html) are **online collaboration and coworking calls** for anyone interested in learning about, discussing and contributing to the project.

**Who?** 
***Anyone** interested in our project & the TRE space is welcome to join this call. No prior sign-ups needed!*

***All questions, comments, and recommendations are welcome!***

---

## Breakout rooms: Topic proposals and notes

*While no sign-ups are required to attend Collaboration Cafe, if you have an idea for a topic you'd like to discuss in a breakout room, please add it below and put your name next to it.*

4 attendees

* Main room theme: Evaluation to contribution
    * Can we add a subheading to the contributing.md about how the team is adding issues to the repo
    * Are we concerned with the timelines of getting v 1.0 of the specification done, if it relies on the comparison paper to be finished before we can move forward with the specification?
    * How long will it take you to do it, and what support do you need to do it (the evaluation paper)?
    * Need more input from the TREEHOOSE side of things, as well as people with experience of the AzureTRE. It also doesn't need to be in a completely finished, final state before we can start working on the specification. Facts need to be filled in before we can do the evaluation.
    * How long? Probably not that long - end of April is a reasonable timeline
    * Is the comparison paper going to include information governance evaluation, or is it out of scope?
    * It's out of scope for now.
    * Getting structure around functional components in evaluation will be really valuable for specification/implementation piece.
    * Some of the structure is already there (personas/roles, tiering etc.), but embedding it more will really help.
    * Could a rolling demo of different TREs be an interesting thing to do?
* Contributing models
    * Can we have an issue that also offers additional community contribution models
*

## Agenda

| Time | Activity |
| ---- | -------- |
| 10 mins | Introductions |
| 20 mins | (1st breakout session) |
| 5 mins | (☕️ Break) |
| 20 mins | (2nd breakout session) |
| 5 mins | :wave: close |