**When?** 
02 May 2023, 15:00 - 16:00 Europe/London ([see in your time zone](https://arewemeetingyet.com/London/2023-05-02/15:00))

:::info
**Zoom Information***: 
* https://turing-uk.zoom.us/j/99226214703?pwd=VWRaWXhacitRS25KODRLOXN3bkI2UT09&from=addon
* Meeting ID: 992 2621 4703, Passcode: 291666

:::

**What?** 
*[SATRE (Standardised Architecture for Trusted Research Environments)](https://medium.com/satre) is a DARE UK Driver Project working to standardise access to secure data in trusted research environments. It includes University of Dundee, Alan Turing Institute, UCL, Ulster University, Research Data Scotland.*. 
[Collaboration Cafes](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/coworking/coworking-collabcafe.html) are **online collaboration and coworking calls** for anyone interested in learning about, discussing and contributing to the project.

**Who?** 
***Anyone** interested in our project & the TRE space is welcome to join this call. No prior sign-ups needed!*

***All questions, comments, and recommendations are welcome!***

---
## Breakout rooms: Topic proposals and notes

*While no sign-ups are required to attend Collaboration Cafe, if you have an idea for a topic you'd like to discuss in a breakout room, please add it below and put your name next to it.*

* Main room theme:

6 attendees

* SATRE project: what's it about
    * Intro to project (couldn't find slides)
    * Worked with multiple TREs, Governance process is arduous
        * Standardising Governance is a people not a technical problem, but most funding is for technical
        * Ask SINAPSE community for what tools they need?
        * Interviewed some TREs (UK and abroad), see paper https://www.jmir.org/2022/9/e33720
        * No standard definition for a "TRE"
        * Already held several workshops
        * Demonstrating user competencies vs training and tickbox exercies
        * Governance standardising may need to be a future funding call
    * Functional specification
        * Differences of Scottish TREs are related to
            * different risk appetites
            * path dependence: what grants/collaborations have led to development
            * finance behind TREs? shouldn't mandate a minimum compute requirment due to cost
            * Issues of equity - who can afford to be trustworthy
            * Certification by RDS?
    * General wish for a certification programme for TREs
        * ICO working group discussions on AI disclosure control
        * Egress control typically targetted at e.g. STATA, less suited for general purpose languages like Python, or ML models which might inadvertently or intentionally encode data
        * ICO does not endorse specific tools/techniques, instead strongly encourage accreditation schemes and will get behind them, will advise on how to set them up, but won't run them
        * Expectations lean toward RDS in Scotland to accredit TREs.
        * Rest of UK? 

    * How much should we be considering future TRE users? How big a user base do we expect in 5-10 years time?
        * Commercial/industry
        * Some users of TREs remember when data management was quite lax, so see TREs as a barrier to their work
            * Answers to this: TRE provider shifts risk: TRE assumes risk of managing GDPR, etc, user doesn't have to worry about protecting their data. More compute. Backups of data.
            * Need to discuss balance
            * Goldacre Review essentially suggest shifting risk into TREs
            * TREs are needed to maintain public confidence in data management
        * Can we get around data disclosure in AI models by also working on "trusted people"? A higher level of "trusted people" who can be relied on to train models appropriately to avoid data leakage, not purely relying on technical controls? Needs to be accompanied by a compliance regime
* What is the SATRE stakeholder engagement process
    * Save for a future collaboration cafe


### Link List ✨ 
*
*
* 
*

## Agenda

| Time | Activity |
| ---- | -------- |
| 10 mins | Introductions |
| 20 mins | (1st breakout session) |
| 5 mins | (☕️ Break) |
| 20 mins | (2nd breakout session) |
| 5 mins | :wave: close |